---
layout: page
category: cook
title: "IgBLAST examples"
order: 2
---

There are two IgBlast command line programs, igblastn and igblastp.  The former is for nucleotide sequences and the latter is for protein sequences.

#### igblastn examples

##### Searching germline gene database 

This example assumes that your current working directory has the following file structure:

```
igblastn
myseq
database
internal_data
optional_file 
```

To query one or more mouse Ig sequences (contained in myseq) against NCBI mouse germline gene 
database (i.e., mouse_gl_V, etc, contained in the database directory) with standard text alignment result format, you can issue the following command:

```
 ./igblastn -germline_db_V database/mouse_gl_V -germline_db_J database/mouse_gl_J -germline_db_D database/mouse_gl_D -organism mouse -query myseq -auxiliary_data optional_file/mouse_gl.aux -show_translation -outfmt 3
```

you can type 
```
./igblastn -help
```
to see details on all input parameters and the default setting, 
particularly those under Ig-BLAST options.

To query one or more mouse T cell receptor sequences (contained in myseq) against imgt mouse germline gene database:
```
./igblastn -germline_db_V imgt_tcr_db_v -germline_db_J imgt_tcr_db_j -germline_db_D imgt_tcr_db -
organism mouse -query myseq -ig_seqtype TCR -auxiliary_data optional_file/mouse_gl.aux -show_translation -outfmt 3
```

To query one or human Ig sequences (contained in myseq) against custom database (using IGH repertoire from Andew Collins et al as an example)
```
./igblastn -germline_db_V UNSWIgVRepertoire_fasta.txt -germline_db_J UNSWIgJRepertoire_fasta.txt -
germline_db_D UNSWIgDRepertoire_fasta.txt -organism human -query myseq  -auxiliary_data optional_file/human_gl.aux -show_translation
``` 

##### Searching other databases in addition to germline database.
Igblast allows you to search an additional database (such as NCBI nr database) as well as the germline 
database at the same time.  You'll get hits from the germline database followed by hits from the additional database.
Note that the additional database may not contain any sequences identifiers that also exist in germline databases.  

To query one or more mouse Ig sequences (contained in myseq) against NCBI nr database, in addition to mouse germline database:
```
./igblastn -germline_db_V mouse_gl_V -germline_db_J mouse_gl_J -germline_db_D mouse_gl_D -
organism mouse -query myseq -auxiliary_data optional_file/mouse_gl.aux -show_translation -outfmt 3 -db nr -remote 
```

Note the -remote option used with this search...it directs igblast to send nr database 
searching to NCBI server which typically is much faster.
 
#### igblastp examples:
The parameters are similar to those of igblastn except it does not search germline D database or germline J 
database. The optional file is not needed.  
Some examples:
  
##### Searching mouse Ig sequence against mouse germline gene database
 
 ```
./igblastp -germline_db_V database/mouse_gl_V -query myseq.prot -outfmt 3 -organism mouse
```

##### Searching other databases in addition to germline database.

```
./igblastp -germline_db_V mouse_gl_V -query myseq.prot -outfmt 3 -organism mouse -db nr –remote
```



